Virtiofs, configvolumes: Add how to share configvolumes with virtiofs. (#673)
kubevirt/user-guide: docs/virtual_machines/disks_and_volumes.md

> # Filesystems, Disk and Volumes

Author: Done.

          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: mypvc

### filesystems

> A `filesystems` disk will expose the volume as a filesystem to the VM.

Reviewer: This should be: "A `filesystem` device"

 it's a _device_ not a _disk_. Also, I think `filesystems`  it should be in singular

Author: Addresed.

> A `filesystems` rely on `virtiofs` to make visible external filesystems to `KubeVirt` VMs. 

Author: Done

at the [Official Virtiofs Site](https://virtio-fs.gitlab.io/).

Compared with `disk`, the `filesystems` allow to dynamically reflect changes in the volumes inside the VM.

> For instance, if a given `configMap` is shared with `filesystems` any change made on it, will be reflected in the

Author: Done

VMs.

> However, on the other hand, `filesystems` **do not allow live migration**.

Author: Done

          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: mypvc

### filesystems
A `filesystem` device will expose the volume as a filesystem to the VM.
`filesystems` rely on `virtiofs` to make visible external filesystems to `KubeVirt` VMs. 
Further information about `virtiofs` can be found at the [Official Virtiofs Site](https://virtio-fs.gitlab.io/).

Compared with `disk`, `filesystems` allow changes in the source to be dynamically reflected in the volumes inside the VM.
For instance, if a given `configMap` is shared with `filesystems` any change made on it will be reflected in the
VMs.
However, it is important to note that `filesystems` **do not allow live migration**.

> Additionally, `filesystems` needs to be mounted inside the VM. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, `filesystem` devices must be mounted inside the VM.
```

    status: {}

### configMap
A `configMap` is a reference to a
[ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/)
in Kubernetes. 

#### Using disk

> By using disk, an extra `iso` disk will be allocated which has to be

Author: Done.

Example: Attach the `configMap` to a VM and use `cloudInit` to mount the
`iso` disk:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk
      - disk:
        name: app-config-disk
        # set serial
        serial: CVLY623300HK240D
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest
  - cloudInitNoCloud:
      userData: |-
        #cloud-config
        password: fedora
        chpasswd: { expire: False }
        bootcmd:
          # mount the ConfigMap
          - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-config"
          - "sudo mount /dev/$(lsblk --nodeps -no name,serial | grep CVLY623300HK240D | cut -f1 -d' ') /mnt/app-config"
    name: cloudinitdisk
  - configMap:
      name: app-config
    name: app-config-disk
status: {}
```

> #### Using filesystem

Reviewer 2: Also, in that Disks section, it would be important to provide links to virtiofs documentation, explain the benefits versus disk mode, and include the live-migration note both at the top, and in each "filesystem" subsection.

Example: Attach the `configMap` to a VM and use `cloudInit` to mount the
`iso` disk:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk

>       - disk: {}

Reviewer 3: If disk is the default behaviour you shouldn't need to add a reference here, the VMI mutation webhook should add this for us during submission.

Author: Dropped the `disk: {}`  I still need the disk section to set the `serial`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      filesystems:
        - name: config-fs
          virtiofs: {}
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: quay.io/containerdisks/fedora:latest
  - cloudInitNoCloud:
      userData: |-
        #cloud-config
        chpasswd:
          expire: false
        password: fedora
        user: fedora
        bootcmd:
          # mount the ConfigMap
          - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-config"
          - "sudo mount -t virtiofs config-fs /mnt/app-config"
    name: cloudinitdisk      
  - configMap:
      name: app-config
    name: config-fs
```

### secret

A `secret` is a reference to a
[Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) in
Kubernetes.
A `secret` can be presented to the VM as disks or as a filesystem. Each method is described in the following

> sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages.

Author: Addressed.

    status: {}

### configMap
A `configMap` is a reference to a
[ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/)
in Kubernetes. 
A `configMap` can be presented to the VM as disks or as a filesystem. Each method is described in the following

> sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages, i.e. `disks` does not support dynamic change propagation and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages, i.e. `disk` does not support dynamic change propagation and
```

Author: Addressed this and the rest of occurrences.

> `filesystems` do not support live migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filesystem` does not support live migration.
```

> Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the order may be more suitable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the other may be more suitable.
```

Author: Addressed.

apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk
      - disk:
        name: app-config-disk
        # set serial
        serial: CVLY623300HK240D
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest
  - cloudInitNoCloud:
      userData: |-
        #cloud-config
        password: fedora
        chpasswd: { expire: False }
        bootcmd:
          # mount the ConfigMap
          - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-config"
          - "sudo mount /dev/$(lsblk --nodeps -no name,serial | grep CVLY623300HK240D | cut -f1 -d' ') /mnt/app-config"
    name: cloudinitdisk
  - configMap:
      name: app-config
    name: app-config-disk
status: {}
```

#### As a filesystem

By using filesystem, `configMaps` are shared through `virtiofs`. In contrast with using disk for sharing `configMaps`,

> `filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `configMaps` to VMIs (i.e., the VM does not need to be rebooted).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `configMaps` to VMIs (i.e. the VM does not need to be rebooted).
```

Author: Done.

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      filesystems:
        - name: config-fs
          virtiofs: {}
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: quay.io/containerdisks/fedora:latest
  - cloudInitNoCloud:
      userData: |-
        #cloud-config
        chpasswd:
          expire: false
        password: fedora
        user: fedora
        bootcmd:
          # mount the ConfigMap
          - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-config"
          - "sudo mount -t virtiofs config-fs /mnt/app-config"
    name: cloudinitdisk      
  - configMap:
      name: app-config
    name: config-fs
```

### secret

A `secret` is a reference to a
[Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) in
Kubernetes.
A `secret` can be presented to the VM as disks or as a filesystem. Each method is described in the following

> sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages, i.e. `disks` does not support dynamic change propagation and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages, e.g. `disk` does not support dynamic change propagation and
```

Author: Addressed.

> `filesystems` do not support live migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filesystem` does not support live migration.
```

Author: Done.

> Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the order may be more suitable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the other may be more suitable.
```

Author: Fixed.

Example: Attach the `secret` to a VM and use `cloudInit` to mount the
`iso` disk:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk

>       - disk: {}

Reviewer 3: As above, might not be required if this is the default behaviour.

Author: See above.

          chpasswd:
            expire: false
          password: fedora
          user: fedora
          bootcmd:
            # mount the Secret
            - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-secret"
            - "sudo mount -t virtiofs app-secret-fs /mnt/app-secret"
      name: cloudinitdisk
    - secret:
        secretName: app-secret
      name: app-secret-fs
```

### serviceAccount

A `serviceAccount` volume references a Kubernetes
[`ServiceAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).

#### Using disk
By using disk, a new `iso` disk will be allocated with the content of the service
account (`namespace`, `token` and `ca.crt`), which needs to be mounted
in the VM. For automatic mounting, see the `configMap` and `secret`
examples above.

> **Note:** Currently, ServiceAccount update propagation is not supported. If a
> ServiceAccount is updated, only a pod will be aware of changes, not running
> VMIs.

Example:
```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk

>       - disk:

Reviewer 3: In this example you've used `virtio` as the disk bus so adding a disk is required without preferences but assuming the bus isn't important you can again drop this from the example to illustrate the default behaviour.

Author: I've dropped the `virtio` bus from the example. Do you think that I should drop the `bus`  from the other examples as well?

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk
      - disk:
        name: app-secret-disk
        # set serial
        serial: D23YZ9W6WA5DJ487
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest
  - cloudInitNoCloud:
      userData: |-
        #cloud-config
        password: fedora
        chpasswd: { expire: False }
        bootcmd:
          # mount the Secret
          - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-secret"
          - "sudo mount /dev/$(lsblk --nodeps -no name,serial | grep D23YZ9W6WA5DJ487 | cut -f1 -d' ') /mnt/app-secret"
    name: cloudinitdisk
  - secret:
      secretName: app-secret
    name: app-secret-disk
status: {}
```

#### As a filesystem

By using filesystem, `secrets` are shared through `virtiofs`. In contrast with using disk for sharing `secrets`,

> `filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `secrets` to VMIs (i.e., the VM does not need to be rebooted).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `secrets` to VMIs (i.e. the VM does not need to be rebooted).
```

Author: Done.

      disks:
        - disk:
            bus: virtio
          name: containerdisk
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
    - name: containerdisk
      containerDisk:
        image: quay.io/containerdisks/fedora:latest
    - cloudInitNoCloud:
        userData: |-
          #cloud-config
          chpasswd:
            expire: false
          password: fedora
          user: fedora
          bootcmd:
            # mount the Secret
            - "sudo mkdir /mnt/app-secret"
            - "sudo mount -t virtiofs app-secret-fs /mnt/app-secret"
      name: cloudinitdisk
    - secret:
        secretName: app-secret
      name: app-secret-fs
```

### serviceAccount

A `serviceAccount` volume references a Kubernetes
[`ServiceAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
A `serviceAccount` can be presented to the VM as disks or as a filesystem. Each method is described in the following
sections and both have some advantages and disadvantages, i.e. `disks` do not support dynamic change propagation and
`filesystems` do not support live migration.

> Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the order may be more suitable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, depending on the use-case, one or the other may be more suitable.
```

Author: Addressed.

#### As a disk
By using disk, a new `iso` disk will be allocated with the content of the service
account (`namespace`, `token` and `ca.crt`), which needs to be mounted
in the VM. For automatic mounting, see the `configMap` and `secret`
examples above.

> **Note:** Currently, ServiceAccount update propagation is not supported. If a
> ServiceAccount is updated, only a pod will be aware of changes, not running
> VMIs.

Example:
```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  labels:
    special: vmi-fedora
  name: vmi-fedora
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
        name: serviceaccountdisk
    machine:
      type: ""
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: containerdisk
    containerDisk:
      image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest
  - name: serviceaccountdisk
    serviceAccount:
      serviceAccountName: default
```

#### As a filesystem

> By using filesystem, `serviceAccount` are shared through `virtiofs`. In contrast with using disk for sharing `serviceAccounts`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using filesystem, `serviceAccounts` are shared through `virtiofs`. In contrast with using disk for sharing `serviceAccounts`,
```

Author: Done.

> `filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `serviceAccounts` to VMIs (i.e., the VM does not need to be rebooted).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filesystem` allows you to dynamically propagate changes on `serviceAccounts` to VMIs (i.e. the VM does not need to be rebooted).
```

Author: Done.
